Speaking of later,
later is now we're gonna talk about RSS.
So the next thing that we wanna
do is add our RSS feed so
that somebody who wants to
can subscribe to this and
get updated whenever we post a new post.
As social media becomes more and
more interesting,
having an RSS feed is a better and
better backup plan, I think.
So what I'm gonna do is add a it looks
like a plug in like you'd be able to
do NPM or NPX Astro add RSS but
it's not that,
it's a it's a separate thing so
we're going to install it manually.
And then we're gonna need a couple
external packages for this we're gonna
use one called sanitize HTML and
one called markdown IT, markdown IT.
I'm not sure which is the proper
pronunciation there, so we install those.
Astrojs/rss, it's a helper
that gives us an XML feed,
that is kind of built to
accept Astro values to make our
lives easier we don't have to
write custom XML on ourselves.
Sanitize HTML is how we're going
to make sure that the XML
content field doesn't break
when we pass HTML into it.
And then the markdown IT is how we're
going to take the markdown content and
turn it into HTML so
that we can send it into the RSS feed.
Because again, what Astro is doing is
giving us an Astro component they're not
giving us a HTML, that's probably
a feature request to add cuz that would be
neat, and it would make this simpler.
So the next thing that we can do
is now we're gonna start using
something called endpoints and
because RSS requires the full site name
the full URL of the website we
are gonna have to define that.
Astro has a config option for this,
so we can just come into the config
astro.config.mjs, and we're going
to add a site key to the config.
And if you don't know what
your site is going to be yet,
you can just make this example.com or
something but
don't forget to change it later,
or else your RSS feed will break.
So what I'm gonna do for
now is I'm gonna point it to
the working demo, so,
this is the demo of the app,
if you wanna go see this,
it's up now and it works.
What I would recommend if you're not sure
what to call it, is just append your
GitHub username to the end, and
you'll be able to deploy it like that.
Otherwise you can let Netlify or
Vercel or whatever generate a name for
you, if you're if you're not
planning on putting this up forever.
And that'll solve the problem
of RSS knowing where it is,
and again, if you're not deploying,
your RSS feed can be broken,
it doesn't really matter.
But we've got that part setup and
we won't get an error we're gonna create
an endpoint, and the way you get an
endpoint is you add a new page, but
we gonna give it a name that we want.
So rss.xml that's gonna be the actual
feed, but then we append .ts to it,
and this identifies to Astro that
we're making kind of a custom return.
Whatever we send back it's not going
to get processed like an Astro page is
not gonna get processed like markdown,
we're just gonna give it something and
it's gonna return that.
So we could do a .json.ts and return
an objective of whatever that we want
people to be able to grab from our site,
maybe we wanna give a JSON feed of our
blog posts, we could do that as well.
In our case, we're gonna do it as XML, and
the way that this works is
this particular little feature
is going to import rss from astrojs/rss and
then we're going to grab.
The AstroConfig type from Astro,
and that's so
that we can get
autocomplete on a piece later.
We're gonna import that,
getCollection again, from Astro content,
and then we're gonna use those
external packages that we installed.
So we're gonna get sanitizeHtml
from sanitize-html and import
markdownIt from markdown-it.
Okay, so then we're going
to grab out our parser and
that's gonna be the the markdown IT so
that's so
that we can turn
the markdown into HTML and
then we're going to
export an async function.
Called get and this is the endpoint part.
So when somebody hits this endpoint
with a get request an HTTP get request,
we're going to send something back and
we can send back whatever we want.
The argument that we get sent to us is
the context, and that's the AstroConfig.
So that is where we get access to that
that site parameter that we just set.
So first and
foremost let's get the blog content, so
I'm gonna grab out my blog as await,
oops, get collection blog.
And then I want to return rss and
this I don't know if this
is gonna autocomplete for
me, it looks like it's not.
I don't know if this one has autocomplete,
or
has TypeScript types this the rss plugin.
So we're gonna set up a title and
a description, and
these are all the required fields for
an rss feed,
so we're gonna say,
All sandwich news all the time.
Then we wanna get the site, and
that's gonna be the context.site.
Then we wanna get our items, and
our items are going to be
a map over those blog posts.
So again we map over and
grab out the post and
then we want to return an object that
has all the things that are required for
one of these to work, so the title
is going to be the post.data.title.
The pubdate is the post.data.date,
the description is
post.data.description and
the link is going to be relative so
blog and then we set up post.slug and
the content is, the messy parts.
So we're going to call that sanitize HTML,
remember we gonna use that
markdown IT
parser.render(post.body) which is just the raw
markdown contained in that markdown file.
And with that saved,
start up the server again,
if you haven't, oops, npm run dev.
So, try to get as much of
that as I can on the screen,
so just to recap here, an rss feed.
If you're not familiar,
is a way of sending a list of items out of
a site in a way that can be
automatically subscribed to,
using a feed reader, google reader.
It was extraordinarily popular and
then kind of fell out of fashion with the rise of social media and
I've seen a resurgence of it lately,
because people are trying to
figure out what happens if
the social media goes away.
Because that has suddenly
become an actual risk.
So rss, starts out by defining
a document with this title description,
the site that its on, and
then provides a list of items,
those items each include
a standard set of fields.
That any feed reader will look for
and then display.
So if I have my rss feed and you've got
yours and we're both using the rss spec,
then somebody can put both
feeds into the feed reader and
we'll see a list of your posts and
my posts in the same list.
Chronologically ordered,
which is, it's great,
it's like such a great
way to curate the web.
If you're, if you haven't tried it before,
start looking to see if,
your favorite creators have rss feeds and
add those.
Because, you can start to curate
your own little social feeds
of what people are creating out there.
Now that we've got this saved,
we don't really have a way to get to it,
but we can just, manually go to it, right?
And this is the thing, so
we've got rss, we've got a channel, and
then we've got our title,
description, link, and
then each of these is an item
containing the default details.
And you can see here that it's using that
site to make all of these permalinks.
So the last little bit that we
wanna do is just make that actually
discoverable on the site, so
let's head over to blog.astro and
down at the bottom below
this section here.
We will just add a quick class feed,
and we'll link to the rss.xml.
And this is something like,
I am actually really a fan of Astro
not having a custom link component or
having specialized behavior around links,
they just use the platform.
You use the anchor tags that
you're familiar with, and
they do what anchor tags
are supposed to do,
you're not really wondering,
is it doing what I think it's doing?
Is it injecting extra JavaScript?
No, it's just a link,
it's just a link and it does link things.
So we're gonna add another emoji,
we'll make it accessible,
make it a role of image aria-label,
satellite dish and
then we're going to add
in that satellite dish.
It's always a risky when you open your
emoji panel and it shows like what your
most frequently used emojis are,
if you like that's laying your soul bare.
All right, so this is gonna be link-text,
the class's link-text, and
we're gonna say subscribe.
To the rss feed,
save that, and here we go.
Now we've got a nice little link
down at the bottom of the blog for
someone who wants to get that rss feed,
they can go, and do so.
So that my friends is rss, so
what we're going to do with
the remainder of our time,
is we're going to put together
hybrid rendering for our Astro site.
We're gonna put together a newsletter
form that will allow people to subscribe,
we're not gonna build in the back end
of actually saving those subscriptions.
That will be exactly the same
as on any other framework,
you're gonna use some service with an API.
I didn't wanna make people sign up for a
newsletter service as part of a workshop,
so we're going to submit it and
display what was submitted on the screen
as a confirmation that it worked.
If you wanna make this into
a functional newsletter subscription,
the only thing you'd have to do is
take the data we're getting out and
actually save it via API to your
newsletter subscription of choice.
Mark?
>> Someone on stream also
commented that you could add
the link rel alternate type
application/rss + xml?
>> That's true yeah, so
if that's a good call out RSS auto
discovery here,
the link rel alternate tag here so
we could absolutely add this
to our default layout And
if someone has an RSS plugin or
if they're using a browser that does auto
discovery of RSS, it would show this
site has an RSS feed available.
I don't know why,
I didn't not include that for a reason,
it was honestly just I kind of forgot
that that's a thing that people do.
I don't know if any, do any browsers
these days do that without a plugin or
without an extension?
>> I think they do.
>> They do, let's try,
let's add this real quick.
So let's drop this in,
we're gonna do a link rel alternate and
we will set this up as rss feed for,
sandwich,
and this one's gonna be rss.xml, okay?
So then if I come out here and I open up,
This page,
do any of these things look like
Okay, so this one doesn't, this is ark and
it doesn't look like it is detecting
an rss feed, but if your browser does,
it'll show what a lot of them will
do is like show a little RSS icon.
Somewhere that you can find
this particular browser doesn't
appear to have it.
But that is a good tip.